hello and welcome to another episode of
movie spoiler alerts today we're talking
about the 2006 film x-men The Last Stand
this was the 3rd x-men film to come out
from Fox
however many films came after some that
were prequels and some that offer a
somewhat altered timeline depending on
how you look at it timeline wise this
film was set at one of the latest time
points the film does rely on part that
you've seen the previous films if you'd
like to see a summary please check out
the links below as well as the summaries
that I have for the other Marvel films
the film opens 20 years earlier with
Professor Xavier and Magneto meeting
with a young Jean Grey at her parents
house discovering that she has
extraordinary powers even for a mutant
we then see 10 years later at the
apartment of an industrialist leader
named Worthington whose young son is
trying to cut off his mutant wings the
film then transitions to present day
where Worthington's company has
developed a vaccine that will suppress
the X gene that gives mutants their
abilities offering a cure of sorts to
mutants who want the cure is created
from a young mutant named Jimmy who can
suppress mutant abilities
Jimmy lives at the Worthington facility
that is on Alcatraz Island some mutants
are very interested in the Cure such as
rogue who is completely incapable of
human contact due to her powers other
mutants however are horrified by the
idea that they are curing mutation and
Magneto is especially upset by this
magneto establishes the Brotherhood of
mutants to fight against the Cure as he
believes that the Cure will soon be
given forcibly to all mutants magneto
and his brotherhood attack a mobile
prison to help mystique escape as well
as two other mutants juggernaut who is
an unstoppable man and multiple man who
can make many copies of himself the
prison guards carry special guns armed
with the mutant cure and fire around at
Magneto
but mystique takes the bullet instead
turning herself into a human without
powers magneto abandons mystique as she
is only a human now which upsets miss
Deak cyclops upset over jeans death
travels to the lake from the second film
where she died Jean suddenly appears to
Cyclops
but as they kiss Jean disintegrates
Cyclops Professor Xavier senses that
something is wrong and sends Wolverine
and storm to investigate however the
lake is now experiencing some extremely
odd properties such as objects randomly
floating around
along with cyclopses glasses in an
unconscious Jean back at the mansion
Xavier explains that when Jean
sacrificed herself during the events of
the second film she released an
alternate personality Phoenix a powerful
animalistic personality that Xavier had
suppressed fearing Phoenix's destructive
potential Wolverine is initially
disgusted when he hears what Xavier did
to Jean at such a young age but when
Jean wakes up it becomes clear that she
is no longer the same Jean and that she
had killed Cyclops Phoenix knocks out
Wolverine and escapes to her childhood
home magneto learns of the Phoenix's
resurrection and magneto and his
Brotherhood along with Xavier and the
x-men arrive at the same time - jeans
home both groups try to get jeans
loyalty until the Phoenix personality
resurfaces Phoenix destroys the house
disintegrates and kills Xavier and
leaves with Magneto and the Brotherhood
the brotherhood attack Worthington labs
to destroy those who make the Cure and
the mutant that the Cure is made from at
the same time mystique flipped on
Magneto
and provided information to the
government which they use to attack the
brotherhood camp however when they
arrived it has only just filled with
copies of the multiple man magneto uses
his magnetic powers to move the Golden
Gate Bridge to connect to Alcatraz where
the labs are located the Brotherhood
attacked the island and the remaining
x-men try to help the military and
fighting the Brotherhood Kitty and x-men
who can move through walls is able to
save the mutant Jimmy before juggernaut
can kill him Wolverine is thrown at
Magneto to distract him long enough for
another mutant named beast to inject
magneto with the Cure stripping Magneto
all of his powers Wolverine tries to
calm down Jean slash Phoenix the army
shoots at Jean awakening the Phoenix and
she disintegrates the troops and begins
to destroy Alcatraz and nearly everyone
around her
Wolverine pleads with her only able to
survive due to his healing abilities
Jean begs Wolverine to kill her as she
knows she is losing control to Phoenix
Wolverine fatally stabbed Jean
destroying Phoenix and mourns genes
death as the film concludes we see
mutants have more legally established
rights in the Xavier school is still
operating with storm as the new
headmistress the President of the United
States appoints beast to be an
ambassador for the United Nations rogue
gets the Cure and her boyfriend Bobby is
upset with her decision before the
rolling of the credits we see magneto
sitting at a chess board similar to the
ending of the first film he gestures
towards a metal chess piece and it
twitches slightly suggesting his powers
are coming back in a post-credits scene
we see dr. mctaggert who is briefly
mentioned earlier in the film in the
context of placing one person's mind
inside the body of another a patient who
is in comatose greets the doctor with
the voice of Xavier implying Xavier
somehow transferred his consciousness
and is not truly dead so that was the
spoilers for x-men the last day if you
have another film you'd like to see me
spoil please let me know in the comments
below check out movie's spoiler alerts
on our various forms of social media
listed below and remember to like and
subscribe thanks for watching